Harshit Dubey : 2586628

Question 1 :What are the request methods in http?

GET: Requests a representation of the specified resource. GET requests should only retrieve data and not modify it.

POST: Submits data to be processed to a specified resource. The data is included in the body of the request, and this method is often used when uploading a file or submitting a form.

PUT: Updates a resource or creates a new resource if it doesn't exist at the specified URL. The entire representation of the resource is replaced with the request payload.

PATCH: Partially updates a resource. The request typically contains only the changes to be applied, rather than the entire updated representation.

DELETE: Deletes the specified resource.

Few other Requests are :  

HEAD: Similar to GET but requests the headers only, without the actual data. It's often used to check if a resource has been modified since a certain date.

OPTIONS: Describes the communication options for the target resource. It's often used to retrieve information about the allowed methods or other configuration details.

TRACE: Echoes the received request back to the sender. It's mainly used for diagnostic purposes.

CONNECT: Establishes a tunnel to the server identified by the target resource. It is often used for SSL/TLS connections to a proxy.




Question 2  : Diff between GET and POST ? 


Get :  In case of Get request, only limited amount of data can be sent because data is sent in header.
Post : In case of post request, large amount of data can be sent because data is sent in body.


Get :  Get request is not secured because data is exposed in URL bar.
Post : Post request is secured because data is not exposed in URL bar.

Get : Get request can be bookmarked.
POSt : Post request cannot be bookmarked.

Get : Get request is idempotent . It means second request will be ignored until response of first request is delivered
Post : Post request is non-idempotent.


GET : Get request is more efficient and used more than Post.
POST : Post request is less efficient and used less than get.


Question 3 : How to send the files as response in express js?


In Express.js, We can send files as responses using the res.sendFile() 